# Symphonic experiment corpus
The symphonic experiment corpus exists out of a myriad of symphonies, from a wide variety of composers. What is so interesting about this corpus, is that it spans over a period from the mid 18th century to the present day. This means that the corpus contains a certain chronological storyline, if we were to put all the symphonies side to side.
On the other hand, the corpus is not only about the historical composers and their lifes. This music has been played and recorded by actual musicians of the present day (however, assuming that the 'present day' is the recording era).
From this questions may arise like: from which country are these artists? what artists play only the popular composers? And can we see a trend in quality and diversity of recording?
Technical aspects aside, we may also look at the more musical aspects of this corpus: how have the symphonies evolved through time?
It is a common conception that contemporary symphonies have 'strayed away' from their original, classical, form. Is there actually a scientific proof to debunk or substantiate this?
To investigate, among others, the above mentioned questions, this corpus aims to serve as a representation of the symphonic timeline. Typical examples are the Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven symphonies, as they are written in the early classical period and are therefore strongly structered. However one must beware of possible prejudices when compiling such a corpus, because a strong preference for well-known composers may disturb the chronology and variety. That is why I also included some lesser known composers to keep things balanced and diverse. On the other hand, it is merely impossible to preserve a strict chronology in the corpus as musical history capricious; earlier eras such have less composers producing more output, in later eras such as the 19th century, symphonies became more popular and the number of symphonic composers steadily increased. Should we therefore add more romantic symphonies as they are more prominently present in musical history? 
As this example shows, picking the right symphonies is an arduous labour. Therefore I added a layer of 'randomness' to my selection process on the basis of a chronological list of composers.
